README.md, before:

## Local Development Setup

These instructions mostly repeat the process scripted in the [Dockerfile](docker-files/Dockerfile), with some minor adjustments for the local development. 

Instructions below assume that they are launched from the repository root

### Building frontend code

These commands are expected to be run from the `frontend` directory.

In order to build the frontend, you need to 
1. Install `node 20.x`. It can be done using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)
2. Run `npm install`
3. Run `npm run local:1` to build the frontend code.
4. Run `npm run build:css` to only build the CSS. `local:1` task also runs this command.

It is expected that `frontend/assets/v1/dist` folder will contain the output artifacts.

### Create Python environment
The LMS uses Python 3.10, and there are dependencies that won't work with the newer Python versions out of the box. 
If your local system Python version is different, you can install Python 3.10 using [pyenv](https://realpython.com/intro-to-pyenv/) tool. 

Having installed Python, you need to create a virtual environment with `pipenv`. Install pipenv using `pip install pipenv`
and run `pipenv install -d` to install the dependencies, along with the dev packages (it installs django debug toolbar). Activate the virtual environment with `pipenv shell`.

### Create and edit a local copy of the environment config
Copy the environment config: `cp lms/settings/.env.example .env`
and fill `AWS.*` variables with some non-empty strings, e.g. `AWS_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=asd`

Append the localhost domain name at the end of the file, if you want to access the LMS in dev mode using "localhost:8001" URL:

```
LMS_DOMAIN=localhost
SITE_ID=1
```

### Prepare static files for serving
```
ENV_FILE=.env python manage.py collectstatic --noinput --ignore "webpack-stats-v*.json"
```

### Initialize the database 

Start PostgreSQL in a docker container:
```
docker run -d -p 127.0.0.1:5432:5432 --name lms-postgres -e POSTGRES_USER=csc -e POSTGRES_DB=cscdb -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=FooBar postgres
```

Start Redis in Docker container: 
```
docker run -d -p 127.0.0.1:6379:6379 --name lms-redis redis:6-alpine redis-server --appendonly yes
```

and apply migrations, that essentially create and initialize the database: `ENV_FILE=.env python ./manage.py migrate`

### Run the backend in development mode

```
ENV_FILE=.env python manage.py runserver localhost:8001
```

### Run tests

Run tests using pytest. 
If you want to run tests from some specific folders, append the folder names to the command: `pytest apps/core`

### CI/CD

Every push and pull request to `main` triggers the `CI` GitHub Actions workflow defined in `.github/workflows/ci.yml`. The workflow provisions Python 3.10, installs Pipenv-managed dependencies, spins up PostgreSQL and Redis services, and runs `pipenv run pytest` against the `lms.settings.test` configuration. Use the same command locally to reproduce CI failures before pushing.

### Testing the JetBrains Academy integration locally

1. Run https://code.jetbrains.team/p/edu/repositories/educational-server locally
2. Set the `SUBMISSION_SERVICE_URL` and `SUBMISSION_SERVICE_TOKEN` variables to the values from the `.env.example` file
3. Enable internal mode in your IDE: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/enabling-internal.html
4. Install the JetBrains Academy plugin
5. Open any JBA course
6. Use the "Change Submissions Service URL" action to set the URL to `http://localhost:8080`

Commit message:

swapping pipenv to poetry in CI and deployment

README.md, after:

## Local Development Setup

These instructions mostly repeat the process scripted in the [Dockerfile](docker-files/Dockerfile), with some minor adjustments for the local development. 

Instructions below assume that they are launched from the repository root

### Building frontend code

These commands are expected to be run from the `frontend` directory.

In order to build the frontend, you need to 
1. Install `node 20.x`. It can be done using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)
2. Run `npm install`
3. Run `npm run local:1` to build the frontend code.
4. Run `npm run build:css` to only build the CSS. `local:1` task also runs this command.

It is expected that `frontend/assets/v1/dist` folder will contain the output artifacts.

### Create Python environment
The LMS uses Python 3.10, and there are dependencies that won't work with the newer Python versions out of the box. 
If your local system Python version is different, you can install Python 3.10 using [pyenv](https://realpython.com/intro-to-pyenv/) tool. 

Install [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) (for example `pip install poetry==1.8.5`) and run `poetry install --with dev` from the repository root to create and populate the virtualenv. Activate the virtual environment with `poetry shell` or prefix commands with `poetry run`.

### Create and edit a local copy of the environment config
Copy the environment config: `cp lms/settings/.env.example .env`
and fill `AWS.*` variables with some non-empty strings, e.g. `AWS_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=asd`

Append the localhost domain name at the end of the file, if you want to access the LMS in dev mode using "localhost:8001" URL:

```
LMS_DOMAIN=localhost
SITE_ID=1
```

### Prepare static files for serving
```
ENV_FILE=.env poetry run python manage.py collectstatic --noinput --ignore "webpack-stats-v*.json"
```

### Initialize the database 

Start PostgreSQL in a docker container:
```
docker run -d -p 127.0.0.1:5432:5432 --name lms-postgres -e POSTGRES_USER=csc -e POSTGRES_DB=cscdb -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=FooBar postgres
```

Start Redis in Docker container: 
```
docker run -d -p 127.0.0.1:6379:6379 --name lms-redis redis:6-alpine redis-server --appendonly yes
```

and apply migrations, that essentially create and initialize the database: `ENV_FILE=.env poetry run python manage.py migrate`

### Run the backend in development mode

```
ENV_FILE=.env poetry run python manage.py runserver localhost:8001
```

### Run tests

Run tests using pytest: `poetry run pytest`. 
If you want to run tests from some specific folders, append the folder names to the command: `poetry run pytest apps/core`

### CI/CD

Every push and pull request to `main` triggers the `CI` GitHub Actions workflow defined in `.github/workflows/ci.yml`. The workflow provisions Python 3.10, installs Poetry-managed dependencies, spins up PostgreSQL and Redis services, and runs `poetry run pytest` against the `lms.settings.test` configuration. Use the same command locally to reproduce CI failures before pushing.

### Testing the JetBrains Academy integration locally

1. Run https://code.jetbrains.team/p/edu/repositories/educational-server locally
2. Set the `SUBMISSION_SERVICE_URL` and `SUBMISSION_SERVICE_TOKEN` variables to the values from the `.env.example` file
3. Enable internal mode in your IDE: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/enabling-internal.html
4. Install the JetBrains Academy plugin
5. Open any JBA course
6. Use the "Change Submissions Service URL" action to set the URL to `http://localhost:8080`
